
         PHANTASMAGORIA TECHNICAL TIPS AND SUGGESTIONS

Thank you for purchasing Phantasmagoria.  In order for you to receive 
the best possible performance with this adventure, Sierra has included 
additional technical tips and game information that was not available 
when the documentation was printed.  The following supplemental 
information should be considered part of the game documentation.


TABLE OF CONTENTS

* Installation Procedures
* Handy To Know
* MS-DOS Problems and Solutions
* Memory Troubleshooting
* Sound Card Troubleshooting
* Special Thanks


INSTALLATION PROCEDURES 

If you are using file deletion tracking utilities, such as Mirror, 
SmartCan, Undelete, etc., please disable these utilities before 
installing Phantasmagoria.

To Install Phantasmagoria under MS-DOS, follow these instructions:

1)  Insert the Phantasmagoria CD #1 into your CD-ROM drive.
2)  From a MS-DOS prompt, type the CD-Drive letter followed by a colon 
    and press the <ENTER> key.  For example, if your CD-ROM drive is 
    labeled as your D drive, you would type:   D: <ENTER>
3)  At your CD-Rom drive label prompt, type:  INSTALL <ENTER>
4)  Be sure the correct choices have been made for MUSIC and AUDIO.
    Choose ACCEPT THESE CHOICES AND INSTALL
    Follow the on-screen prompts to complete the installation.


HANDY TO KNOW

Do not remove the CD while playing the game unless you are prompted 
to do so.

Phantasmagoria defaults to Uncensored mode.  There is no default 
password.  If you wish to Censor the game's more intense moments, 
open the game's Control Panel and turn on the Censor option.  You 
will then be asked to make up a new password.  This password will 
allow you to return the game to Uncensored mode if you wish.

To fast-forward through the movies you've already seen before, press 
the ESC key on your keyboard.

Bonus: We have included screen shots from our first graphic adventure 
game, Mystery House, released in 1980 for the Apple II.  These can be
found in the \MYSTERY directory on CD #1.  You'll need a PCX graphics 
file viewer (such as Windows' Paintbrush) to display these screens.  
If you don't have a PCX file viewer for DOS, download and run the 
PICEM21.EXE file found in library 99 on the Sierra BBS at 
(206) 644-0112.

A list of BBS and Tech Support Numbers for Sound Card, Video Card,
and Miscellaneous Computer Peripheral / Software Manufacturers is 
provided on the Phantasmagoria CD #1.  To view this file, type
"EDIT D:\CONTACT.TXT" (if your CD-ROM drive is D:).

If you have any technical issues that are not covered by this README, 
please look at the THEGUIDE.TXT file on the Phantasmagoria CD #1.  
To view this file, type "EDIT D:\THEGUIDE.TXT" (if your CD-ROM drive 
is D:).

A Problem Reporting text file is also on CD #1.  Please type
"EDIT D:\MOREINFO.TXT" (if your CD-ROM drive is D:) and follow its 
instructions to report any problems not covered in this README or 
THEGUIDE.TXT.


MS-DOS PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS


-DOCUMENTATION CORRECTIONS

Question: Under "DOS INSTALLATION", it mentions you cannot auto-
   matically read the README file using INSTALL.  It also mentions 
   you can view the "README.TXT" file, but there is no README.TXT.
Explanation:  There is now an option to view the README file during 
   INSTALL.  The manual was printed before this change was made.  
   You are currently viewing this README file.  The file you want to
   print is D:\INSTALL\README (if D: is your CD-ROM drive).

The complete list of the credits for the game can be found by clicking 
on the ABOUT button on Phantasmagoria's Main Menu.

Additional System Requirements:
486-25 or better for MS-DOS (486-66 or better for Windows)
8 meg of RAM
5 meg of hard drive space
MS-DOS 5.0 or better
256 color or better Super VGA video card with at least 512K of memory
VESA driver for your video card
Sound card - Sound Blaster compatible
CD-ROM - Double Speed or better
Mouse
Also Supports:
General MIDI devices


-INSTALLING THE GAME

Problem: After running INSTALL, a row of dots runs across the screen, 
   then stops and locks up.
Solution: At the CD-ROM drive prompt (such as D:\), Type the following:
   CD\INSTALL
   INSTALL -m
   (If this doesn't work, try typing INSTALL -f)
   These commands bypass hardware detection.  The dots are our way of
   saying "Please wait, we're checking what kind of hardware you have".
   When the dots stop, this means some hardware is not responding to our
   tests.

Problem:  "Invalid Directory, Bad Command or Filename".
Solution: This means you typed "D:INSTALL".  Please type "D:" and press 
   ENTER, then type "INSTALL" and press ENTER.

Problem:  "Can't create output file" or "Not enough space" during 
   installation.
Solution:  You need to free up more hard drive space before installing
   the game. 

Problem: The install doesn't work from your second CD-ROM drive.
Solution:  Run the install from your first CD-ROM drive.

Problem:  Your video card's VESA driver is not listed during INSTALL's
   VESA test.
Solution:  Although we try to provide as many VESA drivers as possible,
   your particular video card may not be listed.  If this is the case,
   exit INSTALL, and refer to your video card manual to find the command 
   to enable VESA on your particular video card.  Run this command to 
   enable VESA, then rerun Phantasmagoria's INSTALL program.
 
Problem: You ran a VESA driver before installing the game, but you want 
   to use a different VESA driver that works better.  However, you are 
   not given new VESA choices since it looks like you have VESA already 
   installed.
Solution: Reboot your computer.  This will remove the VESA driver from 
   memory.  Do not reload the VESA driver you do not want to use.  Now 
   run our INSTALL to enable the VESA support provided by our game CD.

Problem: The ATI VESA choice did not work for the ATI Mach 32 video card
Solution: Select the MACH32 VESA driver instead.

Question: Why isn't there a LARGE INSTALL choice for Phantasmagoria like
   there was on other Sierra games?
Explanation: Each chapter in Phantasmagoria uses different resources.  
   The only common files for each chapter are already copied to the hard 
   drive during installation.


-STARTING THE GAME

Question:  How do you start Phantasmagoria?
Explanation:  We assume you installed Phantasmagoria onto your C: drive.
   If you installed it to another drive, like D:, please type D: (ENTER)
   instead of C: (ENTER):
Commands To Type:  
   C:        (and press the ENTER key)
   CD\SIERRA (and press the ENTER key)
   PHCD      (and press the ENTER key)

Problem: "DOS/4GW Professional Fatal Error (1307): Not enough memory"
Solution: Rerun the INSTALL program.  Select the option to MAKE A 
   BOOTABLE FLOPPY DISK.  Follow the prompts.  When you are finished 
   making one, leave the boot disk in your floppy drive A:, turn off 
   your computer, then turn it back on.  This will allow the boot disk 
   to run to free up more memory for the game to run successfully.

Problem: "No VESA support detected"
Solution: This means your video card's VESA program was not run before 
   the game started.  VESA allows MS-DOS games to run in colorful, crisp 
   high-resolution.  Please refer to your video card manual for 
   more information to run your particular VESA program to enable high 
   resolution in MS-DOS.  Some examples are "VVESA.COM", "VESA.COM", and 
   "VMODE VESA".
More Information:  We have provided many popular VESA drivers for you 
   on the Phantasmagoria CD.  They are located in the \INSTALL\VESA\VESA
   directory on the CD.  

Problem: "Fatal: Unable to find mouse driver" or "Mouse driver not found"
Solution: This means your MS-DOS mouse program was not run before the 
   game started.  Rerun INSTALL and choose MAKE A BOOTABLE FLOPPY DISK to
   help us find and use your MS-DOS mouse driver.
More Information: MS-DOS needs a mouse program to be run before it can 
   use the mouse.  To see if a mouse program is hidden on your hard drive
   type "DIR \MOUSE /S /P".  Let's say you see:
   Directory of C:\MSMOUSE
   MOUSE   COM
   Directory of C:\WINDOWS
   MOUSE   DRV
   MOUSE   INI
   A mouse program will end in ".COM" or ".EXE", so the mouse drivers in
   C:\WINDOWS in this example won't do.  To run the mouse driver in
   MSMOUSE in this example, type "C:\MSMOUSE\MOUSE.COM".  You should see
   a message saying your mouse is now enabled.  You can now play 
   Phantasmagoria.  If there is no .COM or .EXE file that has to do with 
   your mouse, please refer to your mouse documentation or computer
   dealer for more assistance.

Problem: "Cannot find 999.pal resource.  If this is a CD-ROM game, please
   make sure that a CD-ROM is loaded.  If you continue to experience this
   dialog, make sure your CD-ROM drivers are loaded properly."
Solution #1: Make sure one of the Phantasmagoria CDs is on the CD-ROM
   drive before starting the game.
Solution #2: If you booted off a boot disk that does not load your CD-ROM
   drivers, please reboot without that boot disk.  If you need to use
   a boot disk, please rerun Phantasmagoria's INSTALL and choose MAKE A
   BOOTABLE FLOPPY DISK.

Problem: "Error 29: Unable to initialize audio hardware"
Solution #1: This can be caused by choosing Microsoft Sound System for 
   Music on a Sound Blaster compatible card.  Rerun INSTALL and choose
   Sound Blaster for both MUSIC and AUDIO.
Solution #2: If you have a Gravis Ultrasound, please install and run the
   game in Windows.
Note:  Phantasmagoria requires a Sound Blaster compatible sound card that
   supports DAC speech and FM (or MIDI) music.
 


-MUSIC, SPEECH, AND SOUND EFFECTS
   
Problem: You get no music on a Sound Blaster 16, but the voices are OK.
Solution: Rerun INSTALL and make sure you picked Sound Blaster for MUSIC.  
   If you chose MT-32 or General MIDI, you may not hear music on your 
   Sound Blaster 16.

Problem: You get no music on any Sound Blaster compatible card, or you 
   get a blank screen when the game starts, or the game gets stuck on the
   opening Sierra logo.
Solution: Check if your SET BLASTER environment variable is enabled and 
   at the correct setting.  To check this, at the C: prompt, type SET and 
   press <ENTER>.  You should see a line that says BLASTER = A220 I7 D1 
   (or something similar).  If you do not see such a line and your sound 
   card is on Address 220, IRQ 10, and DMA 1, at the C: prompt, type 
   SET BLASTER = A220 I10 D1 and press <ENTER>.  This line tells MS-DOS 
   how to access your sound card.  Now you can run the game.

Problem: You get no music or no speech in the game
Solution: Many sound cards have mixer software to adjust the volume 
   levels of music and speech.  Please refer to your sound card 
   documentation for more information.

Question:  Why does the Hintkeeper (the red skull in the lower left 
   side of the game screen) speak all the hints in Chapter 1 to 6, 
   but only displays text hints in Chapter 7?
Explanation:  The timing of the sound and video during the interactive 
   movies prevent the Hintkeeper from speaking in Chapter 7.  We 
   provided text hints, rather than providing no hints at all.

Problem: Moving the mouse causes audio static on your sound card, or
   the audio just "pops" a lot.
Solution: This can be a problem with your VESA driver.  Please try a 
   different VESA driver to eliminate the problem, or run the game 
   in Windows.  Contact your video card manufacturer for more 
   information to update your VESA driver

Problem: The speech and sound effects sound distorted.
Solution:  The speech, sound effects, and some music in the game are 
   DAC samples.  If they are played too loudly, they will "clip", or
   distort.  Instead of increasing the DAC Volume, try decreasing the
   MIDI Volume in the Phantasmagoria Control Panel.
More Information:  On some sound cards, such as the Sound Blaster 16, 
   the mixer software (SB16SET) lets you control bass and treble 
   equalizer controls in adddition to master volume control.  Adjust 
   these settings if you are having distortion problems.  Better 
   speakers allow for better music and sound reproduction.

Problem: In MS-DOS, using a Reveal or Aztech Labs sound card, the music 
   is fine but the speech is barely audible.
Solution: The chipset used to emulate the Sound Blaster digital to analog
   conversion is not 100% compatible with the Sound Blaster driver 
   built-in to the game.  Install Phantasmagoria in Windows for full 
   sound.


-VIDEO AND GRAPHICS

Question: What is "VESA"?
Explanation: VESA stands for Video Electronics Standard Association.  
   A VESA driver is a small program your video card needs to provide
   high resolution graphics for MS-DOS games.  A VESA program either 
   comes on a floppy disk with your video card, or your video card 
   automatically supports VESA.  
Information: A group of VESA drivers can be found on Phantasmagoria CD#1
   in the \INSTALL\VESA\VESA directory.  Go to the directory name that
   matches your video card and run that VESA program.  Example: If you
   have an ATI Mach 64, go to the INSTALL\VESA\VESA\MACH64 directory and
   run the M64VBE.COM file.

Problem: Moving the mouse leaves garbage on the game screen, such as
   random blocks of the background image or multiple cursor images.
Solution: You need the latest VESA driver from your video card 
   manufacturer.  Please refer to your video card manual for more
   information.  We have provided many VESA drivers for you to try
   on the Phantasmagoria CD #1.  They are located in the 
   \INSTALL\VESA\VESA directory on the CD.  Please refer to the READ.ME 
   file in the VESA directory for more information.  

Problem: On the ATI Mach 64 video card, moving the mouse leaves 
   garbage on the screen.
Solution: ATI has an updated VESA driver that will solve this problem.
   You can download and unzip the file "64VBE101.ZIP" from the ATI BBS 
   at 905-764-9404.  This file unzips into "M64VBE.COM".  We have 
   included an unzipped copy of this file in the 
   \INSTALL\VESA\VESA\MACH64 directory on the Phantasmagoria CD #1.  
   Please read the 64VBE101.TXT file in that directory for more 
   information.

Problem: On Cirrus 542x video cards, moving the mouse leave garbage
   on the screen.
Solution: Cirrus has an updated VESA driver that will solve this
   problem.  You can download the file "UNIVESA.EXE" from the Cirrus
   BBS at 510-440-9080.  We have included a copy of this file in the
   \INSTALL\VESA\VESA\542X directory on the Phantasmagoria CD #1.

Problem: On Diamond Viper video cards, the Universal Driver will not load 
   and run.
Solution: Use the "VPRMODE VESA" command that is provided by Diamond
   to give you VESA support on Viper cards, or run the game in Windows.
   This card's chipset is not support by the Universal VESA driver.

Problem: The game looks too dark
Solution: In the game directory on your hard drive, edit the 
   RESOURCE.CFG file.  For example, type 
   EDIT C:\SIERRA\SCARYDOS\RESOURCE.CFG
   Add the line "brightness=10" after the last line.  If the movies are 
   too dark, increase the "vmdRgb" value up to 100.  The default is 35.  
   You can also adjust the movie brightness in Phantasmagoria's Control 
   Panel.
Information: The default brightness is 0 if there is no brightness 
   line in RESOURCE.CFG.  If 10 is too bright, try smaller values, like 
   brightness=5.

Problem: The colors look wrong in the movies.
Solution: In the Phantasmagoria Control Panel, turn MOVIE DETAIL on.  
   If the MOVIE DETAIL is off, black lines are inserted between each 
   line of the movies.  This will play the movies smoother on some 
   computers, but will make the movies look darker.

Question:  What options are available to improve playing the movies 
   on your computer?
Explanation:  Phantasmagoria's Control Panel's MOVIE DETAIL ON/OFF, 
   FULL/HALF SCREEN, and MOVIE BRIGHTNESS will help adjust movie play 
   for your computer.  Try Movie Detail Off, Half Screen, and increase 
   the brightness.  If you are still having problems, edit the 
   \SIERRA\SCARY\RESOURCE.CFG file on your hard drive and make the
   VideoSpeed=400.  This will tell Phantasmagoria to play the 
   5 frames per second movies instead of the 10 frames per second 
   movies.  This will speed up movie play.
More information:  If you wish for more improvement, try making and 
   using a boot disk.  Try running the game from MS-DOS instead of 
   Windows, especially if your Display test failed.  The last resort is 
   to edit the \SIERRA\SCARY\RESOURCE.CFG file on your hard drive and 
   add the line "vmdskip=false".  This will prevent the movies from 
   skipping frames to keep up with the audio.  In most cases, adding 
   this line will make the audio repeat as it waits for the video to 
   catch up.  If there is no "vmdskip" line in RESOURCE.WIN, the 
   default setting is vmdskip=true.


-MOUSE AND GAME CURSOR

Problem: Moving the mouse causes audio static on your sound card, or
   the audio just "pops" a lot.
Solution: This can be a problem with your VESA driver.  Please try a 
   different VESA driver to eliminate the problem, or run the game 
   in Windows.  

Problem: The mouse cannot get past the left side of the screen
Solution: You need either an updated mouse driver or an updated VESA 
   driver.

Problem: There is no mouse cursor during the movies.  The >> fast-
   forward button cannot be accessed.
Solution: Most of the movies are non-interactive.  If you don't have
   cursor control, you can only watch the movie.  To fast-forward a 
   movie, press the ESC key on your keyboard.


-THE HINTKEEPER

Question:  Why does the Hintkeeper (the red skull in the lower left 
   side of the game screen) speak all the hints in Chapter 1 to 6, 
   but only displays text hints in Chapter 7?
Explanation:  The timing of the sound and video during the interactive 
   movies prevent the Hintkeeper from speaking in Chapter 7.  We 
   provided text hints, rather than providing no hints at all.


-CONTROL PANEL

Question:  Where is the Control Panel for Phantasmagoria?
Explanation:  Start a new game.  When you have control of the cursor 
   with your mouse, click on the "P" near the bottom of the game screen.  
   This will bring up your control panel for Phantasmagoria.

Problem:  Changing the TITLE BAR do anything in the game.
Solution:  This Control Panel option works only in Windows.  There is
   no title bar in MS-DOS.

Problem:  What does MOVIE DETAIL ON/OFF mean for Phantasmagoria?
Explanation:  When MOVIE DETAIL is OFF, the movies play faster because 
   black lines are inserted between each line of the movie.  Black 
   lines draw faster.  If the movies look too dark with MOVIE DETAIL
   set to OFF, increase the MOVIE BRIGHTNESS.  When MOVIE DETAIL is ON, 
   the movies will look sharper because black lines are not inserted 
   between each line of the movie.  The disadvantage
   to MOVIE DETAIL = ON is that on some systems, the video will be 
   out-of-sync with the audio, or the audio will repeat as it waits for 
   the video to catch up.

Question:  What's a "movie" in the game?
Explanation:  Phantasmagoria has non-interactive scenes called "movies".  
   These will give you more background plot and clues to win the game.  
   The "Watch Intro" option on the Main Menu of the game is an example of 
   a non-interactive movie.  Press ESC to bypass movies.  If you have 
   mouse control, you are not watching a movie.
Note: Chapter 7 has interactive movies, so you will have mouse control 
   there.

Question:  What is the difference between DAC and MIDI volume controls in 
  the Control Panel?
Explanation:  The DAC volume control controls the speech and sound 
   effects in the game.  The MIDI volume control controls the music in 
   the game.

Question:  Why does changing the Censored, Volume, or other options 
   during one particular bookmark affect all the other bookmarks in the 
   game?
Explanation:  These changes are global changes.  The changes are not 
   saved in the individual bookmark files.

Question:  What does each part of the Control Panel do?
Explanation:  Each option is listed below:

                  Main Menu Options:

Chapter Progress Bar:
Shows how much of the game you've completed so far.

Restore:
Lets you restore the game to the last bookmark you dropped in the game.  
If you want to restore a different saved game, you'll need to QUIT the 
game and choose CONTINUE OLD GAME from the main menu.

Play:
Exits the Control Panel and lets you continue the game.

Full Screen / Half Screen:
Adjusts the size of the movies in the game.  Full Screen may cause 
repeating audio and jerky video on some computers.  Half Screen helps the
movies play better on low-end computers.

More:
Brings up the second control panel screen of advanced game options.

Save:
Lets you save your position in the game so you don't have to replay the 
entire game over again to get to where you are now.

Quit:
Lets you quit the game.  You'll have the option to update your bookmark.

Censored / Uncensored:
Allows you to control the content of the game.  Censored will blur the 
gory parts of the game so you can't see what's happening.  Uncensored 
will show you all the nasty details.  The Censored option will ask you to
enter a password.  Once you enter a password, ALL your saved games will 
be censored, even if you continue a saved game that was not censored.  
You can switch back to Uncensored game play by entering the password you
created.

                  More Menu Options:

Title Bar On / Off:
In Windows, this lets you the "Phantasmagoria" title bar.  This option is
only for Windows. It is ignored in MS-DOS.

Volume MIDI / DAC:
MIDI controls the music volume in the game.  DAC controls the speech and
sound effects volume in the game.  Users may experience degradation in 
audio quality when turning down the DAC.  We recommend that you adjust
the volume levels of MIDI, your speaker, and your sound card mixer 
settings first.

Main Menu:
Returns you to the first screen of Control Panel choices.

Movie Detail On / Off:
Movie Detail Off makes the movies play better on low-end computers by 
inserting black lines in the movies.  Black lines draw faster but make 
movies look darker.  Movie Detail On plays movies with more detail and
brightness, but makes movies run slower.  If your movies video is jerky,
or is out-of-synch with the audio, please turn the Movie Detail Off.  
Many users actually prefer the black lines for its visual appeal.

Movie Brightness:
Lets you control the brightness of the non-interactive movies.  This is 
useful if you have Movie Detail set to Off to insert black lines in 
movies.


-MAKING AND USING A BOOT DISK

Question: What is a boot disk?
Explanation: A boot disk is a way to make games work faster and better on 
   your computer.  All you need is a blank floppy disk for your A: drive.  
   This will not work in your B: drive.  To make a boot disk, rerun the
   INSTALL program and choose the menu option MAKE A BOOTABLE FLOPPY DISK.

Problem: "Can't find FORMAT.COM--Unable to make boot disk"
Solution: This is caused when our boot disk maker program cannot find
   FORMAT.COM on your hard drive.  This usually happens if you installed
   PC Tools or Norton Utilities.  These utilities rename FORMAT.COM
   to either FORMAT!.COM or XXFORMAT.COM.  If this is the case, please
   type the following commands
   CD\DOS
   COPY FORMAT!.COM FORMAT.COM
   COPY XXFORMAT.COM FORMAT.COM
   One of these commands will help restore your FORMAT command back to
   normal, and will allow our boot disk maker to work.

Problem: "Can't make bootdisk since you're not using COMMAND.COM" or 
   "Boot disk was not created"
Solution: This can be caused if you are using 4DOS or NDOS (in Norton 
   Utilities).  Get to a C:\> prompt.  Type:  SET  and press the ENTER
   key.  COMSPEC should equal C:\COMMAND.COM or C:\DOS\COMMAND.COM.
   If COMSPEC = 4DOS.COM or NDOS.COM, the boot disk maker will not
   work.  To correct this, type:  SET COMSPEC=C:\DOS\COMMAND.COM 
   This will allow our boot disk maker to work.  When you reboot
   without a boot disk, the COMSPEC will return to your original 
   setting.

Problem: "Can't Find SIERRA.ERR" after using a boot disk.
Solution: The boot disk maker did not find your CD-ROM driver or some 
   other files required to run for CD-ROM access.  Edit the A:\CONFIG.SYS
   file on the boot disk.  Make sure there is a line that loads your 
   CD-ROM drive.

Problem: "Invalid Drive Specification" using a boot disk on a Western 
   Digital IDE controller.
Explanation:  The Western Digital IDE hard drive controller displays a 
   message "Press the SPACEBAR to boot from a floppy disk."  If you 
   insert the boot disk and reboot before seeing this message, you'll 
   get the message "Invalid Drive Specification" and won't have hard 
   drive access until you reboot without the boot disk.   
Solution: Remove the boot disk from the floppy drive.  Reboot your 
   computer.  When you see this message, insert the boot disk and press 
   the SPACEBAR.

Problem: "Invalid Drive Specification" using a boot disk on larger 
   Seagate hard drives, such as the Seagate 800 meg hard drive.
Explanation:  Seagate hard drives larger than 528 meg use a disk manager 
   called "EZ-DRIVE".  If you insert the boot disk and reboot before 
   seeing this message, you'll get the message "Invalid Drive Specifica-
   tion" and won't have hard drive access until you reboot without the 
   boot disk.   
Solution: Remove the boot disk from the floppy drive.  Hold down the 
   CTRL key and reboot your computer.  You'll see a message "Insert 
   bootdisk and hit ENTER to reboot".  Insert the boot disk and press
   ENTER.

Problem: "Invalid Drive Specification" using a boot disk on a removable 
   media drive, such as Bernoulli, Seagate, or SyQuest drives.
Explanation: Our boot disk maker does not load the removable media drive 
   software drivers.  If your removable drive was D: and your CD-ROM was 
   E: when the game was installed, then you booted with our boot disk to 
   free up more memory, your Bernoulli drive would not be seen, and your 
   CD-ROM drive would now be D:.  The Phantasmagoria icon's properties 
   will not be correct to run the game in this case.
Solution:  Add your removable media drivers to the boot disk.


-RUNNING THE GAME

Problem: The game runs too slow
Solution: Make and use a boot disk.  

Problem: Random crashes on Compaq Presario CDS 524, 920, etc. 
Solution:  Make a boot disk.
   
Problem: Random crashes and errors
Solution:  Make sure your C:\SIERRA\SCARYDOS\RESOURCE.CFG file is 
   correct and complete.  A sample RESOURCE.CFG file is listed below.
   In this example, D: = the CD-ROM drive
videoDrv  = VESA.DRV
soundDrv  = ADL.DRV
audioDrv  = DACBLAST.DRV
joyDrv    = NO
directory = \sierra\scarydos
minCPU = 486
minDOS = 500
mode = protected
CD = yes
CPU=486
CPUSpeed=63
VideoSpeed=322
CDROM=2
mouseDrv  = NONE
memoryDrv = NONE
language  = 1
audioSize = 22k
cmd       = sierra
cd        = yes
smartdrv  = yes
hires=630,450
midiBuffSize5=30000
midiBuffSize6=65000
vmdRgb=35
resaud=D:\ 
resmap=D:\ 
ressfx=D:\ 
rescdisc=D:\ 
sync=D:\ 
movieDir=D:\vmd 
patchDir=C:\sierra\scarydos;D:\;D:\patches 
robot=C:\sierra\scarydos;D:\patches;D:\robot 
audiosize=63 

Problem: "EMM386 Error 6 or Error 12... " The error number may vary.
Solution:  This is caused by a memory conflict.  Running the game from 
   the boot disk will usually correct this problem.  Please see "Create 
   a Boot Disk" and "Create a Clean Windows Environment" under Memory 
   Troubleshooting.

Problem: "Can't allocate X bytes in ..\(somename).cpp"
Solution: You are running low on conventional memory.  Please rerun 
   INSTALL and make a boot disk.

Problem: "Out of Low Memory" or "Out of High Memory"
Solution:  Make a boot disk.  Please make sure you have enough memory 
   to run the game.  If you have 4 meg of RAM instead of 8 meg, the
   game will try to run, but will fail when more memory is required.

Problem: "CDR 101 Error reading" or "DOS Error, Read Error".
Solution:  Make sure the CD is not scratched, dirty, or smudged with
   fingerprints.  If so, clean it with a soft cloth and try again.  
   This can also be caused by an outdated version of the MSCDEX file.
   MS-DOS version 6.2 and above should use MSCDEX version 2.23
   MS-DOS version 6.0 should use MSCDEX version 2.22
   MS-DOS version 5.0 should use MSCDEX version 2.21
   If you have MSCDEX version 2.20, please get a later version from 
   your CD-ROM manufacturer.

Problem:  "Error 105: ResSound (or ResView): Attempt to load wrong 
   type"
Solution #1:  Make sure you do not swap a CD too soon.  Only insert a 
   new CD when it is asked for, and please make sure it is the correct 
   CD asked for.
Solution #2:  This type of error is usually caused by corrupted program 
   files or a bad installation of the game.  To correct this, delete the game 
   and run CHKDSK /F or SCANDISK to detect and correct any hard 
   drive errors.  Then, boot up with a Phantasmagoria boot disk and 
   reinstall the game in a clean Windows environment.  Please see 
   "Create a Boot Disk" and "Create a Clean Windows Environment" 
   Memory Troubleshooting for complete steps.

Problem:  "Error 99: Error Loading Resource 999.PAL, restype.cpp(56)
Solution #1: This type of error is usually caused by having the wrong 
   game CD in the drive when you try to start Phantasmagoria.  Please 
   make sure the Phantasmagoria CD is in the drive before you start the 
   game.
Solution #2: If you booted with a non-CD boot disk or bypassed your 
   CD-ROM drivers on bootup, you'll get this error message.  Please
   reboot and make sure your CD-ROM is responding before starting the 
   game.

Problem:  "Unable To Allocate XXXX Bytes" even with a boot disk.
Solution:  Phantasmagoria doesn't require a lot of conventional 
   memory, but some users have found adding these lines to the 
   Phantasmagoria boot disk's CONFIG.SYS solves their problems:
   DEVICE=C:\DOS\HIMEM.SYS
   DOS=HIGH

Problem:  You are tired of seeing the same movies over and over during
   the Chapter 7 chase.
Solution:  Press the ESC key once during each movie segment to skip
   to the next movie segment.


-BOOKMARKS AND SAVING GAMES-

Problem:  In the Control Panel, you can restore to the point where you 
   last made a bookmark, but you cannot restore a different saved game.
Solution:  In the Control Panel, select QUIT to return to the Main Menu.  
   On the Main Menu, select CONTINUE OLD GAME.  This will allow you to 
   choose whatever saved game you want, to restore.  The red skulled 
   bookmark is the last saved bookmark you used.

Problem:  You can't access the save game feature in Chapter 7.
Explanation:  Once Don begins to "chase" you in chapter 7 (you'll know 
   when the chase has started), you can no longer access the save game 
   feature in the control panel.  As you play through the chase in
   Chapter 7, the game is automatically being saved for you, but in a 
   fashion different than before.  Once the chase begins, there is no 
   going back.  You must keep going forward...until the ultimate outcome.
   From this point on, your "old" saved game will not exist in the same 
   form anymore.  Instead, it will resemble a "saved" movie sequence 
   instead.
Solution:  To restart a chase sequence, click on the Watch Movie button. 
   It will prompt you for which game to restart (based on the name of the 
   save game you were playing prior to starting the chase).  Your entire 
   "saved movie" sequence from the point you started the chase until the 
   place you made a bad decision will automatically be reviewed. If you 
   don't want to watch this, just click on the >> (fast forward) button 
   on the interface panel. You will regain control of the game at the 
   last point at which you could have made a better decision that would 
   have allowed you to win the game.


-OTHER QUESTIONS 

If you don't see your question listed, most difficulties with 
Phantasmagoria can be resolved by simply running the game with a boot 
disk.  Please see "Create a Boot Disk" under Memory Troubleshooting.
Also look at the file D:\THEGUIDE.TXT (if your CD-ROM drive is D:).


MEMORY TROUBLESHOOTING

Some game players have experienced difficulty getting enough memory to 
run Phantasmagoria.  This usually occurs on computer systems with 8 
Megabytes of RAM, but can happen on machines with more memory.  If you 
are having trouble starting the game because of memory problems or are 
receiving memory-related errors during the game (such as an "Out of 
Hunk" or "Out of Memory" message), please make and use a boot disk.

Create a Boot Disk:  Sierra has included a boot disk maker with 
Phantasmagoria.  You can access it by running INSTALL from game CD #1.

You can also access the boot disk maker from the MS-DOS prompt.
Type "BOOTDISK -c -p -s" at the D:\> prompt (if your CD-ROM is
D:).


SOUND CARD TROUBLESHOOTING

Phantasmagoria's Control Panel can adjust the volume control in the
game.  If you need more control, most sound cards' speech and music 
volume can be controlled separately through software provided by the 
sound card manufacturer.  Here is a list of some common sound cards' 
mixer volume control commands in MS-DOS.

Sound Blaster 16:
Type C:\SB16\SB16MIX

Vibra 16 in AST Advantage: 
Type C:\VIBRA16\MIXERSET

Sound Galaxy 16 in Packard Bell: 
Type C:\SOUND16A\UTILITY\MIXTSR or type C:\SOUND144\MIXTSR

Ensoniq Soundscape:
Type:  SSINIT

Compaq Presario CDS 524, 920, etc.: 
If DEVICE=C:\CPQDOS\VOLCTRL.EXE is in CONFIG.SYS on the boot disk, then:
Press CTRL-RIGHTSHIFT to increase volume
Press CTRL-LEFTSHIFT to decrease volume

Proaudio Spectrum Family:
Type PAS * to bring up the mixer controls
Press CTRL-ALT-U to increase the master volume level
Press CTRL-ALT-D to lower the master volume level

Sound Blaster 8 bit: No software control. Adjust thumbwheel on card.

Thunderboard: No software control. Adjust thumbwheel on back of card.


SPECIAL THANKS

Special thanks to the people at Micrografx for Picture Publisher

Thanks to Chris Hunt, Nancy Hamilton, and Dave Moore of Dynamix for 
the DOS INSTALL and Boot Disk Maker updates and corrections.

Thanks to JVC CD Replication for the special duplication run of the 
pre-market beta CDs.

A very special thanks to our hard-working, bug-crushing 650 beta testers.


